# SG-DSIF-7 Project 2: Ames Housing Data and Kaggle Challenge
# Student's Name: Kong Yin Zeong

### Problem Statement

As a property agency, it is very important to us that we are able to estimate what is the estimated worth of the property. There are many manipulating variables that are affecting the price of a property. We will make use of regression model to estimate the SalePrice of a property and measure how well is our prediction and the actual SalePrice.

---

### Datasets

The datasets used in this project are listed below.

* [`train.csv`](./datasets/train.csv): ([source](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/dsi-us-11-project-2-regression-challenge/data?select=train.csv))
* [`test.csv`](./datasets/test.csv): ([source](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/dsi-us-11-project-2-regression-challenge/data?select=test.csv))

---

### Summary

Baseline model was generated by using only 2 features whcih are Lot Area and Overall Qual and the R2 score is 0.7143.
Besides that, Ridge and Lasso models were also being used in Modeling Part 1 and the R2 score of each model is recorded. All data except SalePrice are fit and transformed to standard scale before applying Ridge and Lasso. R2 Scores of Ridge and Lasso are quite close to each other, 0.8398 and 0.8437 respectively.

After that, feature selection was performed manually in Modeling Part 2 by filtering only the features with correlation higher than 0.5 with the SalePrice. In order to minimize multicollinearity, VIF of the filtered features were compared and the Year Remod/Add was removed. Linear Regression is trained with the new filtered features. The resulting R2 score is higher than the baseline model but not as good as Ridge and Lasso.

In Modeling Part 3, SelectKBest is used for feature selection and the best number of features is 140 after running through multiple values. Training data is fit and transformed with the selected number of features to generate the outcome. This model gives us the highest R2 score at 0.8901.

Test data given is cleaned and empty values were filled in with the same parameters and methods in cleaning the train data. After that, the SalePrice is predicted with the model in Modeling Part 3.

---

### Conclusion

|Model|In Section|R2 Score|
|---|---|---|
|Linear Regression|Baseline Model|0.7142968805431572|
|Linear Regression|Modeling Part 1|-4.6009062687285534e+21|
|Ridge|Modeling Part 1|0.8397908717781926|
|Lasso|Modeling Part 1|0.8437015234296557|
|Linear Regression|Modeling Part 2|0.7702069554872076|
|Linear Regression|Modeling Part 3|0.890137859811365|

In the end, we have selected linear regression model with SelectKBest feature as the feature selection tool because it has the highest R2 score among all the other models and methods.

